# LibreQoS v4 to v1.5 Change Summary

NLNet Milestones: 2B and 2C.

This is a relatively huge development branch. Major features:

* The kernel-side XDP now performs all dissection and analysis in the XDP side, not the TC side. This results in better CPU usage overall.
* If your kernel/drivers support it, use eBPF metadata functionality to completely skip a secondary LPM check - for a substantial CPU usage decrease.
* Packets are divided into "flows" (by a source IP/dest IP/protocol/src port/dst port tuple).
* Flows gather TCP retransmission data, as well as byte/packet counts.
* Flows are scanned for RTT (by time sequence). When one occurs, instead of using a regularly polled map (which proved slow), they are sent to the userspace demon by a kernel ringbuffer/message system.
* RTT messages are received by the userspace and compared with an "ignore" list. If they aren't ignored, they are categorized by remote IP for ASN information, and RTT data placed in a large ringbuffer.
* Flows are expired after a TCP FIN or RST event, or 30 seconds (configurable) after they cease sending data.
* Once a flow expires, it is sent to the "finished flow system".
* The finished flow system categorizes by target ASN, target location (geolocated via a free database), IP protocol and ethertype. These are displayed in the GUI.
* Optionally, finished flows can be sent to another host in summary form via Netflow V5 or Netflow V9 protocols - allowing for further analysis with tools such as `ntop`.
* Quite a bit of UI work to accommodate all of this.
